feat: adjusts custom action example for android (#807)
ZupIT/beagle-docs: content/en/android/customization/action/simple-action.md

---
title: Simple Action
weight: 104

> description: Creating and running a custom action

Author: ```suggestion
description: Creating and trigerring a custom action
```

> ---

Reviewer: Suggestion: I think the word running can be removed from this description or be change to 'triggering' instead. 

We 'run' scripts but actions we 'trigger' through events

Author: done

**Topics covered:**

- What is a custom action
- How to create a custom action
- How to Register a Custom Action
- How to use a custom action

**Requirements:**

- A project with Beagle Configured (FRONT and BACKEND)

## What is a custom action?

> A custom action is an action with a specific behavior created by the developer. Beagle has a number of default actions, however, there may be a situation that requires A new functionality, such as opening a camera interface on a cell phone.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A custom action is an action with a specific behavior for your use case. Beagle has a number of default actions, however, there may be situations that require new functionalities, such as starting the camera interface on a cell phone.
```

If you want to know more about Default Beagle actions you can check the session with the [**action-types.**]({{<ref path="/api/actions/overview#action-types" lang="en">}}).

## How to create a custom action

To create a custom action you need to:

> Step 1. Create a class annotated with `@RegisterAction`, and implement the `Action` interface, in your application FRONTEND and BACKEND enviroments;

Reviewer: Is the same annotation used for both Android and BFF?

> Step 1. Create a class annotated with `@RegisterAction`, and implement the `Action` interface, in your application FRONTEND and BACKEND enviroments;

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Step 1. Create a class annotated with `@RegisterAction`, and implement the `Action` interface, in both FRONTEND and BACKEND enviroments;
```

> Step 1. Create a class annotated with `@RegisterAction`, and implement the `Action` interface, in both FRONTEND and BACKEND enviroments;
> Step 2. Set the action name by annotation parameter to avoid possible problems with Proguard and make sure that the action has the same name in the BACKEND and FRONTEND;
> Step 3. After that, the interface will ask for the `execute` method to be implemented (FRONTEND only);

Author: ```suggestion
**1.** Create a class annotated with `@RegisterAction`, and implement the `Action` interface, in your application **Backed** and **Frontend** environments;
**2.** Set the action name by annotation parameter to avoid possible problems with Proguard. Make sure the action has the same name in the **Backed** and **Frontend**;
** 3.** Implement the **`execute`** method (only in the **Frontend**).
```

> Step 3. After that, the interface will ask for the `execute` method to be implemented (only in FRONTEND);

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Step 3. After that, the interface will ask for the `execute` method to be implemented (FRONTEND only);
```

The `value` attribute is an example of a parameter that can be declared in the Action class constructor, you can set as many as you need.
The following example shows a custom action that will execute a **Toast** receiving a text as the `value` parameter:

> ### Class that represents an action in FRONTEND (Android)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### **Class that represents an action in Frontend (Android)**
```

) : Action {
    override fun execute(rootView: RootView) {
        Toast.makeText(
            rootView.getContext(),
            value,
            Toast.LENGTH_SHORT
        ).show()
    }
}
```

> ### Class representing the action in the BACKEND

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### **Class representing the action in the Backend**
```

```kotlin
@RegisterAction("customActionAndroid")
data class CustomActionAndroid(
    val value: String
) : Action
```

{{% alert color="warning" %}}
  Note that here the class only needs to register the parameter you want to declare in the BACKEND and use it in the FRONTEND. In this action we declare only a `value` that will store the message to be used in TOAST.
{{% /alert %}}

> Below we have the JSON that represents this action being called from the click of a button:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
See below, a JSON that represents this action being called from the click of a button:
```

```json
{
  "_beagleComponent_": "beagle:button",
  "text": "Beagle Button",
  "onPress": [
    {
      "_beagleAction_": "custom:myCustomAction",
      "value": "ParameterForAction."
    }
  ]
}
```

> ## How to use a custom action

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## **How to use a custom Action**
```

> As with default actions, to use a custom action, just declare it in a component that performs actions, such as a `Button`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As with default actions, to use a custom action, just declare it in a component that triggers events, such as a `Button`'s on press.
```

> In the example below, the action is declared in the button's `onPress` attribute:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> In the example below, the action is declared in the button's `onPress` attribute:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If you want to use a custom Action,  declare it in a component that performs actions, for example, **`Button`**.
The action is declared in the button's **`onPress`** attribute, see below:
```
